I started to study the Bible in 1993. At that time I was 43 years old. I was married
for 19 years and I had two children. At that time I didn't know if I would become one
of Jehovah's Witnesses or not, but I accepted a Bible study.
My husband's request, I started studying the Bible at the same time, but I only studied
for about a year. Then I decided I'm going to stop. I asked him to stop studying too.
I told him, let's stop studying. This is not for us. We don't understand it.
But in a very diplomatic and calm way, he said he would continue. When I realized he
would continue studying, I said to myself, well, all right then, just you wait and see.
If you really want to continue, I will somehow make you stop studying in a subtle way, but
I will do it. Just seeing him get ready to go in the field so as annoyed me so much. I
started burying him with household chores, asking him to help me more and more around the
house. But calmly and gently every time he would ask me if he could prepare for meetings.
And one time when he asked me if he could prepare for the meeting, yet again I got irritated
and said, you're not going to prepare now. We're going to clean the whole apartment thoroughly.
After we were finally finished at midnight, he asked me very calmly if there was anything
else he could help me with. It was not easy for him to deal with my efforts to force him
to stop studying. And after he got up, I tried even harder. But he never retaliated, he
stayed calm and endured it. In this period, I was trying to understand
her reactions. But it wasn't easy for me. Here in her criticisms, those harsh replies,
I thought sometimes I think I'll just give up. It makes no sense to go on like this.
I said to the brother who was studying with me about this, I want to stop. And he encouraged
me. He said, no, no, don't stop. Don't quit. Continue, continue. Probably your wife will follow
you. These conversations always encourage me. And when we were finished our study, I would
see things from a different perspective. I always loved my wife and I wanted her to be by
my side. During this period, he often told me how much he loved me. Many times, yes, very often.
And sometimes he would ask me if I loved him too. There were times when I would answer him.
And there were times when I just smiled and said nothing. And I even thought, hey,
this guy really cares about me. I was impressed by his kindness. I was very impressed.
Many times, I was musing, well, as a man, he could hit me, he could be demanding,
you will sit down, you know? But no, he never did that. He never raised his voice. Never
spoke a mean word. Never. When she saw that I did not retaliate as in, I would not reply harshly
and I would not talk badly to her, then eventually she would calm down. In his calm and mild way,
he began inviting me to the meetings. He kept on inviting me and sometimes I was willing to accept.
Slowly, I started to attend the meetings. I was happy. I was very happy when she said she wanted
to resume her study. In August 2006, I started studying the Bible again. And in March 2007, I became
an unbaptized publisher. And in July 2007, I decided to get baptized.
I served in the baptism department and I had the privilege to personally baptize my dear wife.
First Corinthians 134 says that love is patient and kind. Patients means, first of all, being patient
for months, years or maybe even decades. Never give up. Never consider someone as a lost cause.